(GRAVEL SCRAPING)
(CAUGHT A GHOST'S
FOOTSTEPS PLAYS)
Name?
(BREATHLESSLY)
Walter Pruitt.
* Get out the door
* And s_me|_| the su_|fur
hanging In the aIr
Name?
(SHAKILY)
Margaret Hopkins.
* Turning the page
as if there's nothing there
Name?
D-D...
Dan.
* There goes another day
* Vaguely revolutionary
songs and incantations
(DOOR CLOSES)
* Fighting battles
from the basement
* You slept through the alarm
Thank you all
for coming.
I know it wasn't easy
to get here
in your current condition.
On the bright side,
you won't be in your current
condition for much longer.
To be clear,
the procedure
that we suggest today
has not been approved
by the FDA.
In fact, you'll each
have to inject yourselves.
It's a crime
for us to do it for you.
We ask that
you administer the treatment
at the same time.
(INJECTORS FIRING)
* They told you
you could have everything
* If you just believe
(MARGARET LAUGHING)
Oh! Oh!
(LAUGHTER)
* You hear it happens
* If you get down
on your knees and beg *
(LAUGHING CONTINUES)
(MONITOR BEEPING RAPIDLY)
He's seizing.
(RAPID BEEPING CONTINUES)
(MEN GROANING)
(FLATLINING)
(GROANING CONTINUES)
(PADDLES WHINING)
(THUMP)
(FLATLINING)
(FLATLINING CONTINUES)
(DOOR SLIDES SHUT)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS
IN DISTANCE)
Cooper talked to the
Attorney General this morning.
Officially, your immunity
agreement never existed.
They won't let me
see Marvin Gerard.
I'm sure
there are other lawyers.
I'm being denied
my counsel Of Choice.
A public defender's been
assigned for the arraignment.
(SCOFFS)
Did you hear
what I said?
Cooper's been ordered
not to inform the court
about the Task Force.
They're going
to prosecute you.
Of course they are.
They're
political animals.
In the short run,
justice always loses
to politics.
Aren't you worried?
You've been indicted
for at least half a dozen
capital offenses.
I'm confident
I'll prevail.
I want to talk
about the news.
The Marshals have been
watching all morning.
Yeah, you've been
the top story
on every Channel.
I'm not talking
about me.
There was
a story about
_ bodies found
In a VIrgInIa warehouse.
I saw that. Some
kind of underground
medical experiment?
What if I told you
I knew who conducted
that experiment?
His name is
Dr. Spalding Stark,
and he's the next name
on the Blacklist.
You're facing the
death penalty, and
you're giving us a case?
Rigidity.
Bradykinesis.
Yes.
I'm certain our treatment
can help.
Dr. Stark presents
as a renegade,
a biohacker,
devoutly dedicated
to enhancing human life
by hacking our genetics.
What do you mean
he "presents" that way?
He approached a company
of mine about a year ago,
asked for help
acquiring
some advanced
gene-editing equnpment.
I must say, he was...
Very convincing.
(SHAKILY)
It's just so expensive.
I know. I'm sorry.
But we're doing this
on our own,
without the R&D budget
of a big pharmaceutical
powerhouse.
Some of our most revolutionary
scientific achievements
come from minds
outSIde the mainstream.
I helped him
because I thought
he was quite possibly
a visionary.
And now?
And now there are five
dead bodies in a warehouse
suggesting otherwise.
Now I fear Stark may be
the worst kind of Charlatan,
the kind who preys
on the weakest among us
_for his own
finanCIal gain.
AMES: My...
My daughter's pregnant.
I want to see
my grandchild.
(BREATHING SHAKILY)
I can get you
the money.
Hmm.
(DOOR CREAKS)
All rise!
United States
v. Raymond Reddington.
C-R 18-3656.
Magistrate Judge
Roberta Wilkins
now preSIdIng.
Morning,
Your Honor.
Assistant US. Attorney
Michael Sima
for the United States.
LONNERGAN:
Jerome Lonnergan
from the Office Of
the Federal Public Defender
for the accused.
Uh, waive reading
of the rights and charges,
but not the rights
thereunder.
JUDGE WILKINS: So waived.
Your Honor, given
the defendant's history,
the government asks
that he be remanded.
Yeah, I'm gonna calendar this
for a month from today.
A month from today would be
just perfect, Your Honor.
Thank you.
Y-Your Honor,
may I be heard?
I don't recommend it,
Mr. Reddington.
You have an attorney.
I strongly suggest
you let him
do the talking.
And I would, Your Honor,
no question,
but given how quickly
things are proceeding,
I get
the distinct impression
that Jerry here
has a bus to catch.
I'm sorry. Are we moving too
fast for you, Mr. Reddington?
(CHUCKLES)
I'm just saying
there are important matters
to discuss.
Such as?
Well, for starters,
Your Honor hasn't really
considered the issue Of bail.
Sir,
you have been
a federal fugitive
for nearly
three decades,
the FBI's
Number One Most Wanted.
You are
the textbook definition
of a flight risk
and a danger to the community.
Now, let me be clear...
Even if you were prepared
to submit
every last dollar
in Circulation
on the planet,
I still wouldn't
grant you ball, ever.
Okay. I, for one, feel better
knowing it was considered.
Anything else?
I'm afraid so.
May we approach?
Carefully.
You hang here, Jerry.
This will only take a sec.
Look at my face,
Mr. Reddington.
I'm not amused.
And I assure you,
neither am I.
But the fact remains
the prosecution
has intentionally failed
to inform the court
of a critical factor
mmmwm.
And that is?
My immunity agreement
with the federal government,
an agreement
that expressly covers
the charges before you
and protects me
from overzealous beavers
like Mr. Sima
and his bosses.
Good Lord.
You're a confidential
Informant.
Mr. Sima?
I-If... If there's
an agreement,
I _haven't seen _
any eVIdence to prove It.
That's hardly a denial.
Mr. Reddington,
is there anything
you can Offer this court
to support the existence
of an immunity agreement?
Assistant Director
Harold Cooper
of the FBI is here.
He may be able to shed
some light on the matter.
Assistant Director Cooper,
step up, please.
Sir.
Mr. Cooper, I'm going
to ask you this once
and only once.
To your knowledge,
is there currently
an immunity agreement
in place
with this defendant?
Yes or no?
Yes.
Chambers,
all of you, now!
(GAVEL POUNDS)
(JUDGE WILKINS SIGHS)
You. Talk.
(DOOR CLOSES)
I run a task force.
Officially,
it doesn't exist.
Its purpose is to arrest
high-priority targets
using intelligence obtained
from Mr. Reddington.
SO, Main Justice made
a deal with the devil himself?
(LAUGHS) Shouldn't judges
at least pretend
to be impartial?
Your Honor, as I said,
if such a deal exists...
Oh, it exists.
Harold and I_have been at this
for over five years now.
Of course, some of the people
who originally approved it
are either dead
or have moved on,
leaving Director Cooper
to deal
with the cover-their-asses
crowd,
who, by the way, are perfectly
happy to milk this cow
all the way
to the slaughterhouse.
I'm sure the first question
they asked
in response to my arrest
was whether
I could still continue
to be an effective asset
while locked up in jail...
Am I right, Harold?
Mr. Cooper, you tell
your superiors at Main Justice
that I just ordered a hearing
on the scope of the agreement,
and I want a copy of it
on my desk today.
I can't rule on a contract
I haven't seen. Understood?
Good.
We'll reconvene
In the morning.
Mr. Reddington, you have
an attorney sitting out there
who has no idea
what he's gotten into.
I suggest
you fill him in.
Actually, I don't think
that'll be necessary.
Why is that?
Because _after _
careful conSIderatIon
of the Circumstances,
I feel it more prudent
to represent myself.
His name is Spalding Stark.
This guy is, like,
a total icon
in the biohacking community.
There are icons in _
the biohacking community?
Oh, yeah. I've been reading
about this guy for years.
I saw a live stream
in 2009
where he injected himself
with a homemade
malaria vaCCIne.
Why would he do that?
To prove that it was safe.
The FDA wouldn't authorize
human trials
without a ton of red tape.
SO, get this,
the plan was to inject himself
with the vaccine,
then let an infected
Anopheles mosquito bite him...
...live.
And it worked?
No. He suffered a catastrophic
hyper-immune response.
Paralyzed half his face
along with his left arm
andleg.
And that _makes him
anicon?
Yeah.
He put his body
on the line to...
To improve
the human condition.
Well, he didn't stop there.
If Reddington's right,
he just killed
five of his patients.
Meaning you don't?
He's in federal prison
about to start the legal
fight of his life.
I don't know why
this guy's a priority,
but I guarantee we're
not getting the whole story.
(RADIO CHATTER)
(VEHICLE DOORS OPEN)
(VEHICLE DOORS CLOSE)
RESSLER: Officer Flynn?
Agents Ressler
and Navabi.
Captain said
you'd be coming down.
Bodies still _inside?
Yes, Sir.
And we also kept
the building owner on site,
just like you asked.
Excuse me,
Warren Kirby?
We understand
you're the one
who called 911?
Yeah. Yes, sir.
Sorry, still a little
shaken up by
what I saw in there.
What can you tell us
about what happened?
(SIGHS) Not much.
I mean,
I-I don't really know.
I own the building.
It's a storage space.
Generally, I rent it out
month-tO-month.
SO it was rented?
Several days ago
by a guy named Stark.
I never met him.
Just called the office
and booked it.
Said he wanted to store
medical eqUIpment.
I came by this morning
to check on things,
make sure everything
got loaded in okay, and...
(SIGHS)
...nObOdy was here.
The front door was unlocked.
I went in,
and that's when I saw
the bubble
and the bodies.
RESSLER: Dr. Maguire.
What have we got?
Well, we still have to ID.
two of the bodies,
but the others were suffering
from end stages of MCDD.
It's, uh, Motor Cortex
Degenerative Disease.
SO these people
were already dying.
Yes, but the question is,
what were they
injected with,
and why'd they all die
so fast?
You're all set,
Mr. Ames.
We _received
your Wire transfer.
Our preliminary exams
all indicate
that you're an excellent
candidate for
my new treatment.
How does it work
exactly?
Your disease _is caused
by multiple
chromosomal defects.
I identified them
and created a viral payload
that has all of_
the genetic material...
(CLEARS THROAT)
...in its corrected order.
Excuse me.
(WHISPERING) What?
(WHISPERING) Look,
I know you want to continue,
but after...
I'm not stopping.
Last time
was my mistake.
I pushed too far.
We_ can make
adjustments.
Ohh! Looks like
somebody forgot
something.
Looks like part
of a jet injector.
The force of his weight
must have broken it apart.
Is that how Stark
administered the medication?
Yes, but I don't think
I've ever seen_one
qUIte like this.
It's custom._
It's very SCI-fi.
I can show it to Aram,
see if he knows someone
who can help figure out
where it came from.
I'll reach out
to an expert on MCDD.
We really need to know
what we're dealing with here.
Are you really gonna give her
a copy Of the agreement?
Judge Wilkins is waiting.
I'm not sure
I have much choice.
Don't.
IfI don't,
Reddington goes to prison.
Maybe worse.
And this is just step one.
_I have
to testify tomorrow,
convince the court
he's worth savmg.
He used you.
Your decency.
He knew you wouldn't lie
_ about
the immunity agreement.
He knew you'd rather
violate a direct order
and damage your own career
instead.
Liz, the Reddington deal
exists.
The kind of government willing
to pretend it doesn't,
to deny facts and make reality
whatever it says is reality
I reject it,
and I won't be part of it.
I'm just going
to tell the truth.
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYS)
(DOOR OPENS, CLOSES)
Parkinson's, Alzheimer's,
ALS, lymphoma,
rheumatoid arthritis,
you name it.
Chances are, we have
a substantial market share
of the drugs
sold to treat it.
And that includes Motor Cortex
Degenerative Disease.
Crown Life's the leading
manufacturer Of Sensiprex,
what most neurologists
would call state-Of-the-art
when it comes
to MCDD treatment.
SO it's effective?
To a degree.
Nobody's discovered
a cure yet.
_ All we can do
is manage the symptoms.
I'm sorry,
but have you ever heard
of a biohacker
named Spalding Stark?
Don't think so. Why?
We think he's out there,
telling end-stage
MCDD patients
he'd made some kind
of a breakthrough.
Patients get desperate.
They're willing to believe
anything.
You got no idea
how many crazy Characters
are trying
to push the envelope.
SAMAR: SO, who is
this guy again?
(DOORBELL BUZZES)
Uh, just a friend.
We trade ideas
sometimes online.
Oh, um,
don't stare at his head.
He hates that.
(DOOR OPENS)
Buddy, you made it!
Come on in.
We just ordered hot wings.
Oh, no way.
Um, this is, uh, Samar.
Uh, Agent Navabi.
She's staring at my head.
I hate that.
I'm sorry. You have a...
NFC chip
in my forehead, yeah.
And two more in my hands.
Turns on my lights,
computers,
and has
my credit card info.
ARAM: So, what are you guys
working on?
Uh, Gruber's still trying
to edit his own DNA,
_ increase
his muscle tone.
_It's a work
in progress.
Uh, these two guys
are using CRISPR,
playing around with
a viral attack for leukemia.
Also we got, like,
20_minut_es_ before_
American Ninja Warrior.
PASCAL: We're in a new stage
of research.
It's not just Big Pharma
and top academics anymore.
Amateurs are cloning DNA,
editing genomes.
Teenagers are getting
centrifuges for Christmas.
Got labs in their bedrooms.
It's terrifying.
Damn right Big Pharma's
terrified. They should be.
We're the cutting edge now,
and they know it.
They think
they're cutting edge,
but there's no oversight
and no regulation.
Regulation?
What about innovation?
How many brilliant minds
have been stifled
by the FDA's
onerous requirements?
We are the future.
I mean, maybe not
anyone in this room,
but you get the idea.
Here. Help yourself.
Sweet.
Um, actually, uh...
We gotta run.
I, uh...
I just came by to, uh,
see if you had anything for us
on that broken injector gun.
You got that photo
I sent, right?
Yeah, it's a pretty
distinctive model.
I-I think I know
who sells it.
A company
called NexHack.
Um.
(THUMPS LIGHTLY)
(BEEPING)
(KEYS CLACKING)
Yeah, here we go.
It's fairly new.
These are the founders
and the guys
who funded development.
Oh, my God.
That's Warren Kirby.
VVhO?
He's the owner
of the storage facility.
He found the victims
and called 911.
He lied to us.
JUDGE WILKINS: For the record,
I have reviewed
the immunity agreement.
The courtroom
has now been cleared
to protect
the defendant's role
as the confidential
informant.
This hearing is sealed
in accordance
with the Classified Evidence
Protection Act.
Mr. Reddington has called
Assistant Director
Harold Cooper
to the stand.
The witness _
has been sworn in.
Mr. Reddington,
I'm ready if you are.
Thank you.
Hello, Harold.
Thank you, by the way.
For what?
Being honest.
I regret I had to rely
upon your integrity
just to get this hearing.
I wish there'd been
an eaSIer way.
Objection.
I haven't even
asked anything yet.
JUDGE WILKINS:
Something tells me
that's the objection.
Do you have a question
for Director Cooper?
Just one, Your Honor,
and it's this.
Would you
do it again?
Excuse me?
The deal we made,
my cooperation in exchange
for my freedom.
As the man who oversaw
the arrangement
in all its grand
and Often gory detail,
would you do it again?
Yes.
Why?
Sorry,
I had two questions.
_ Because
it saved lives.
I don't know how many
since we started.
Maybe thousands.
SIMA: Objection!
Move to strike.
Oh, for goodness sake.
Your Honor, I fail to see
how this witness'
subjective assessment
of the agreement
has any relevance to its scope
as a matter of law.
Overruled.
Objection.
On what grounds?
I just ruled in your favor.
Your Honor,
I Object to almost
everything about him,
beginning with
his power tie
and ending with
his general demeanor.
Enough.
Objection.
Mr. Reddington,
if you are going
to insist on
representing yourself,
you will conform yourself
to the rules of the court.
Thank you, Your Honor.
Same goes for you, Counsel.
Let the witness speak.
We made this deal
for one reason,
so you could help us
find those criminals
we never knew eXIsted.
And you've done that.
Violent people,
evil people
are dead or in prison
because of you.
In some cases,
we recovered dangerous weapons
or avoided
catastrophic outbreaks.
Your Honor...
Let me finish!
A few years ago, we learned
some of those criminals
were inside
our own government.
The Attorney General,
a National Security Advisor,
the very people
our country depends on
to maintain
law and order.
To be Clear, none of that
would have happened
without Mr. Reddington.
SO, would I
do it again?
You're damn right
I would.
Nothing further,
Your Honor.
You lied to us,
Mr. Kirby.
You said you never knew
Mr. Stark.
That's the truth.
SAMAR:
SO, it's a coincidence
that Stark was using
a jet injector
made by a company
that you're invested in?
Okay, look.
M-Maybe I do
know him.
But I swear,
I wasn't there when...
If you were working
with him,
conning those people
out of their money,
you're an accomplice,
and that means
you're gonna be charged
with ﬁve counts of murder.
No, no, no, no.
You don't understand.
I wasn't in this
for money.
This was personal.
I was diagnosed with MCDD
almost 11 years ago.
Stark was my pharmacist
at Greene Drugs,
and I used to see him
when I'd go in to get my meds.
He could see
I was getting worse.
My body wasn't responding
to the existing treatments
anymore.
One day, he asked
ifI might be open
to a more experimental
approach.
You're saying that
Stark's treatment cured you?
He came to me
a few weeks ago.
Asked me to lend him
my warehouse
so he could
expand his work.
When I went to the warehouse
and saw what happened...
Stark was already gone.
(SIGHS)
I didn't know what to do.
I'm telling you,
Spalding Stark
isn't a con man.
He documented my case.
I have copies of the files.
I can show you.
He's the only reason
I'm alive.
SIMA: You are aware
that the defendant
has been indicted
on multiple counts
of treason?
. I am. .
For selling this nation's
most highly-classified
secrets,
for betraying
our country?
Yes.
You're aware that,
for almost 30 years,
he's maintained
a vast criminal empire,
that the charges
against him as the...
(PAPERS RUSTLE)
...so—called _
"ConCierge of Crime"
are so extensive
and so heinous,
they occupy a unique place
in our country's history?
I'm aware of the allegations.
I'm sorry. Allegations?
Is it your position that
the defendant is innocent?
Until proven guilty.
Or is it your position
that I should ignore
the Constitution?
My position, sir,
is that some people
are irredeemable,
that a deal granting immunity
to a man like Reddington
is beneath the dignity
of a country
that prides itself
on the rule of law.
Objection.
He's arguing with the man,
and, frankly, being
incredibly self-righteous.
Sustained... The first part,
the arguing. Move on, Counsel.
Sir, is there no one you
wouldn't make a deal with?
If not this defendant,
is anyone too Offensive
to be given a free pass
by your standards?
Well, now he's just
being insulting.
I said move on, Counsel.
To be Clear, nobody gave
Mr. Reddington a free pass.
He has to earn
his freedom.
There are rules
he has to abide by.
SIMA: I see.
Really?
SO, to your knowledge,
he hasn't committed
any crimes
since becoming
your informant.
I won't discuss
speCific cases.
What we do
is Classified
and Often_ involves matters
of national security.
Okay, Your Honor...
You opened the door to this,
Director Cooper.
Does he abide
by the rules or not?
SIMA: I'll ask you again.
To your knowledge,
has Raymond Reddington
committed any
unsanctioned crimes
since becoming an informant
for your task force?
(DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYS)
I have no direct knowledge
that he has.
No.
RESSLER: Is there any idea
which way Wilkins is leaning?
(INHALES DEEPLY)
Could go either way.
I thought she'd rule after
my testimony yesterday,
but she wants to hear
arguments first.
The courtroom's
been cleared.
We can't even watch.
It's up
to Reddington now,
which means we're back and
free to lend a hand on Stark.
SAMAR: SO far, we know that
Stark worked as a pharmacist
in one of the Greenes
here in DC.
That's how he met Kirby.
It's also how
he established contact
with the five victims
from the warehouse.
Greene is _
a national chain.
Stark was accessing
its database
and reaching out to patients
with advanced MCDD.
I'm guessing those five
weren't the only ones.
Let's follow up, see how many
people he contacted.
There's a Chance he's done
other experimental trials.
We could have more bodies
out there.
I'll do it.
I'm going crazy
waiting to hear
about Reddington.
(FOOTSTEPS)
Guys, guys.
I went through Kirby's files.
Everything he told us
is true.
But Stark's
treatment works?
_ It_all started _
With his own injuries.
That malaria vaccine
he developed?
It damaged
his motor cortex,
which is why
he started studying
all this stuff
in the first place.
And he documented
everything,
how he mapped out
the multi-allelic defects,
how he developed
a viral payload
designed to produce
hybrid cells with
corrected genomes.
You honestly believe
he cured Kirby's condition?
He reversed it,
no question.
SO, Reddington's
first impression was right.
Stark's a visionary.
COOPER: If that's true,
What happened
at that warehouse?
I had the same question,
so I went down
to the forensics lab
and got a copy Of
the preliminary tox report.
You won't believe
What they found.
Sabotage?
This is the treatment
formulation
used by Stark on you.
This is the one
that was used
on the five victims
from the warehouse.
They're identical.
Except for one key component,
an extremely rare nerve agent
called "Cylovex."
A nerve agent?
That's What killed
those people.
And Whoever put it in there
didn't expect
the toxicology lab to find it,
and for good reason.
SAMAR: Normally, Cylovex
wouldn't be on anyone's radar,
but with all the news
of the Russians
allegedly using
Novichok in England,
the FBI lab is on high alert
for anything like it now.
Stark has a partner.
His name is Ethan Webb.
He synthesizes all of Stark's
formulations, including mine.
Ethan wouldn't do it.
Neven
Why not?
I just told you,
they're partners.
They're also friends.
I-I don't believe Ethan
would kill those people.
SIMA: Can you imagine,
immunity for
Raymond Reddington?
Immunity for a man
who betrayed America,
for number one
on the Most Wanted List,
thousands Of crimes,
and how many victims?
I-I can't even guess.
This wasn't a deal.
It was a conspiracy.
An unjust
and illegal conspiracy
to deprive the
American people
of justice.
There is nothing
this defendant can do now
that will erase_
the memory or the impact
of What
he's already done.
Your Honor, this court
has the power
and the obligation
to reject
government conduct
that shocks
the conSCIence,
conduct so outrageous,
it offends the canons
of decency and fairness
that deﬁne_
our CIVIlized SOCIety,
and that's exactly
What this agreement does.
This agreement should be void
as a matter of public policy.
Throw it out.
Tell the defendant, no more.
Justice demands no less.
(KEYS CLACKING)
All right, that's him,
Dr. Ethan Webb,
and according
to his profile,
he's a synthetic biologist
and a molecular virologist.
And guess where
he used to work.
(KEYS CLACKING)
RESSLER: Crown Life.
That's the company
I just met with.
They're the leading
manufacturer
of MCDD medication.
He used to work
for Big Pharma?
Until about two years ago
when hew as fired and left
the company in disgrace.
Fired for What?
Stealing proprietary data.
They suspected he was working
on a cure on his own.
That must be when
he partnered up with Stark.
I don't understand.
If they were working together,
Why would he sabotage
their progress?
If there is a cure,
it's gonna be worth
a lot of money,
so maybe Webb
wants it all
to himself.
Something's off.
I still feel like we're
missing something.
(LIQUID POURING)
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
(HORNS HONKING IN DISTANCE)
(CLEARS THROAT LIGHTLY)
(BREATHES DEEPLY)
This decision
was made
many years ago.
The fact is, a small group
at the Department of Justice
did their due diligence,
and With the blessing
of the Attorney General
and Legal Counsel
at the White House,
they concluded
that the benefit
that law enforcement
and, consequently,
the American people
would gain
from my assistance
would exceed that
of the rather abstract
beneﬁt
of seeing a man
of my alleged infamy
being punished
in a public fashion.
There can be no question
they were legitimately
exercising
their prosecutorial
discretion.
They made
a judgment call.
One that apparently
offends Mr. Sima,
and, Clearly,
he's not alone.
I'd imagine there are
any number of people
from prosecutors
to plumbers
who, despite knowing
virtually nothing about me
or the events
of the last five years,
nonetheless would find
my arrangement
with the government
Wildly unacceptable.
And to be Clear,
that's fine.
Debate and disagreement
are at the core
of any true democracy.
Argument is necessary.
Perfectly reasonable juries
will Often differ.
On a side note,
I once went fly ﬁshing
for a cutthroat trout
in the Roaring Fork Valley,
Where, inexplicably,
I stumbled upon
uh, Justice Antonin Scalia,
may God rest his soul,
(LAUGHING) and, boy, did we
have some real barn burners.
My word,
that man could argue.
Six hours,
hip deep in whitewater,
and With all the yelling,
neither of us _
got so much as an aleVIn.
Objection, Your Honor.
What's the point of all this?
The point, Mr. Sima,
is that your outrage
doesn't concern me.
What concerns me
is that the powerful men
and women who made this deal
and those who reaped
the benefits of it
for years
actually considered it
an Option to deny
its existence.
They decided to say
that What happened
never happened.
The sad fact is,
the facts have never
mattered less
than they do today.
We're living
in a time when
truth has been
so diminished in value
that even those
at the top of government
are quite comfortable
with truth being whatever
they can convince
people to believe.
That is what I find
Wildly unacceptable.
The truth certainly matters,
Your Honor,
in rooms like this
most Of all.
And the truth is,
Whether you or he
or anyone else
likes it or not,
that immunity agreement
exists.
Guys, we got a problem.
I did what you said,
followed up to see
if Stark's contacted
any other patients using
the Greene Drugs database.
Don't tell me
he's done this before.
No, I don't think
he has done it before,
but he is definitely
about to do it again.
He's reached out to a handful
of late-stage MCDD patients
over the past few days.
He's conducting
another trial.
I talked to one
of the patient's Wives.
It's happening today
in a storage facility
in Highland Park.
Get there,
the three Of you.
Agent Mojtabai,
notify local PD.
If Webb sabotaged
those doses,
all those people
are about to die.
Thank you all
for coming.
(VON GREY'S
POISON IN THE WATER PLAYS)
Almost done.
Ethan.
I know you didn't
want to do this.
I know you're only here
because of our friendship.
You don't have to.
No, I do.
I-I want you to know
how much
I value our partnership.
HOW much I appreciate
you standing by me,
no matter What.
* There is a Judas among us
I just need
a minute to finish.
* There is a Judas among us
* Nobody here we can trust
(TIRES SCREECH)
FBI.
What do we got?
No visuals,
no movement in or out.
Tactical's getting ready
to blow the loading bay doors.
Do it now.
(WEAPONS COCK)
STARK: As discussed,
we need you
to inject yourselves.
We ask that you administer
the treatment
at the same time.
* Poison in the water
(EXPLOSION)
Let's see your hands!
Everybody,
show me your hands!
FBI. Everyone, freeze!
Put those down now.
(MONITOR BEEPING RAPIDLY)
* Danger in the well
* Do not wander
Shepherd's daughter
Aram, we were too late.
We have
a patient down.
* There is a Judas among us
* Nobody here we can trust
(GRUNTING)
* Poison in the water
(GRUNTING CONTINUES)
(INJECTOR FIRES)
(GRU NTS)
* Poison in the water *
(DOOR OPENS)
COOPER: Judge Wilkins
cleared us to be present
for the ruling.
_ Elizabeth
is on her way.
Thank you, Harold.
COURT CLERK: All rise.
SO, here we are
at the end of a hearing
nobody wanted me to have
about an agreement
nobody wanted me to see.
It's times like these
I'm grateful
that federal judges
are appointed for life.
I'm_ not as brave
as Director Cooper.
I agree with Mr. Sima.
There are certain actions
that fall beneath
the standard our citizens
have the right to expect
from a country that prides
itself on the rule Of law.
I honestly don't know
Whether Mr. Reddington
is guilty of the multitude
of crimes
with which
he's been charged.
He's never been tried.
That is the problem.
To deem this deal
the abomination
that Mr. Sima
would have me believe,
I'd have to first accept
that Mr. Reddington
is the monster
he's alleged to be.
Our Constitution
reqUIres otherWise.
I don't like this deal.
But like it or not,
the federal government
has benefited from it
for over five years.
They can't pretend
they haven't,
and neither Will I.
Accordingly, this court finds
Mr. Reddington's immunity
agreement legally binding.
Objection, Your Honor.
REDDINGTON: Thank you,
Your Honor.
We really should
do this again some time.
Your Honor?
May I be heard,
Mr. Sima,
your Objection is noted.
The agreement stands.
Then he violated it.
JUDGE WILKINS: Excuse me?
The agreement bars us
from prosecuting the defendant
unless he violated it.
Under the terms,
we would_then have
a right
to declare it
null and void.
Oh, please.
Violated it how?
The gun.
When you were arrested,
you had an unregistered weapon
in your possession.
But that's
a state crime.
Yes,
right up until someone
scratched the serial number
off Of it.
That made it
a federal Offense.
JUDGE WILKINS:
He's right,
Mr. Reddington.
I don't imagine
this agreement
lets you walk around
with a defaced ﬁrearm.
If you violated
your Obligations
under the deal,
you've forfeited
its protections.
To prove that, the gun
would have to be
admissible in evidence.
Why wouldn't it be?
Because the Officer
who seized it
was conducting an unreasonable
search and seizure.
I see.
I take it, then, that you
are moving to exclude the gun
and request
a suppression hearing?
I am, a-and I do.
Granted.
Well, look at that.
Your wish came true.
It seems we will get
to do this again soon.
LIZ: The gun hearing
is in a week.
You have to argue that
the officer that searched you
didn't have probable cause.
Where are they taking me?
If the search was bad,
the gun will be suppressed,
and they can't say
you violated your deal.
Elizabeth,
I'll be fine.
Will you do me a favor
and ask one Of the Marshals
Where I'm being transported?
(METAL DOOR OPENS, CLOSES)
Harold?
What happened yesterday
on the stand...
It's done.
You testified
because you value the truth.
I know it couldn't
have been easy.
I protected
myself and my team.
Yes, well,
a luclq confluence
of interests.
I admit,
for a moment,
Ithought
you might decide
that our time together
should end.
I considered it.
You should know
I gave Agent Keen that Option,
and she asked
that we continue.
(METAL DOOR OPENS)
(FOOTSTEPS)
The gun hearing's
in two weeks.
(METAL DOOR CLOSES)
Until then, they're gonna
transfer you to Colton.
For security, they want you
in an actual prison
and not pre-trial
detention.
We can talk more
once I'm settled.
I haven't told you
about Stark.
You got him?
You were right
about him.
Apparently,
he's brilliant.
He was being sabotaged
by his partner,
a guy named
Ethan Webb.
And this Webb,
he confessed?
I gotta say, I'm kind of glad
you pulled that injector gun.
Means I get to add attempted
murder Of a federal agent
to the homicides you're
gonna be Charged with.
Yeah, that's right.
We know about the Cylovex.
STARK: You don't
have to believe me,
but I was trying
to help them.
I do believe you,
Mr. Stark.
Those people didn't die
because of your error.
They were poisoned.
Poisoned?
By a nerve agent
called Cylovex.
Dr. Webb betrayed you.
He, um...
He...
Not subverted.
He, um,
intentionally undermined
your research.
Ethan wouldn't.
Why would he do that?
Because he was
never my partner.
You _two started
working together
after you were ﬁred
by Crown Life.
I wasn't fired
from Crown Life.
That was a lie,
a smokescreen
designed by my bosses
to enhance my credibility
with the biohacking
community.
Make them believe
I was a kindred spirit.
You targeted Stark.
I want a deal.
If you expect me to testify
against the company...
Any deal is gonna have to be
approved by the US. Attorney.
Now, you tell us
the truth,
I'll make sure
they know you cooperated.
It's the best
I can do.
He was assigned
to befriend me?
Crown Life knew
that you were working on MCDD.
They were concerned
that you might make
a breakthrough.
SO, they sent Ethan
to sabotage my research
and steal my ideas
so they could
mass market a cure?
Crown Life doesn't want
to market your cure.
They want to bury it.
The company makes billions
providing the drugs
to treat MCDD.
They can make 10 times as much
treating it over years
as they can
selling a one-time cure.
I'm gonna go get a warrant
for the company.
Webb gave us the names
of everyone involved.
(DOOR CLOSES)
Am I being
sent to prison?
Probably,
but not for long.
You'll have to answer for the
bodies left at the warehouse,
but, otherwise, your part
in this wasn't criminal.
Ethan and I
were a good team.
He had me so fooled.
I'm sorry.
Sometimes it's the people
closest to you
you have
to watch out for.
* Where you gonna go
* Like that
* With the holes in you?
Mr. Pascal.
We meet again.
* With the holes in you
* Where you gonna go
* Like that
* With the holes
* In you?
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
Oh, hey, come in.
Cooper told me
about the gun hearing.
I don't understand.
You know Raymond
always carries a weapon.
That doesn't make it legal.
Around here,
when it comes to Reddington,
we kind of see
What we want to see.
Are you okay?
I'm confused.
Someone betrayed us,
and I haven't been able
to figure out who.
If there's anything
I can do...
Actually,
there is something.
Mr. Stark... I need
to speak with him
privately for Raymond.
It cannot be recorded.
He always
has his own agenda.
What is it this time?
(DOOR OPENS)
(DOOR CLOSES)
DEMBE: Mr. Stark,
we don't have much time.
Dembe, how did you...
I go Where
Mr. Reddington sends me.
He's very concerned.
_ _ _He made
a Significant investment
into your research.
If you are unable
to deliver on schedule...
No, no. Tell Mr. Reddington
I'm making progress.
My situation here
won't interfere.
I certainly hope not.
Mr. Reddington
is counting on you.
* With the holes in you?
* With the holes in you *
Sabotage.
He sabotaged
your research.
Dr. Webb betrayed you.
He sabotaged
your research.
Hey. Everything cool?
Yes.
Let's get out Of here.
I am starving.
(METAL CLANGS)
(ENGINE STOPS)
MAN: (OVER RADIO)
Confirm yard recall.
(RADIO CHATTER)
MAN 2: Uh, 2-1-2 transport
is in the lead.
MAN 3: We have
another team over on...
Mr. Reddington,
welcome home.